Sessions store events from providers that were activated by Controllers.
Controllers also manage sessions, they create them and specify different configuration parameters such as type of log file to use, the name of the file where they are going to log, etc. 

There is a maximum of 64 sessions simultaneously in the ETW architecure.

Sessions manage several in-memory buffers 

The are two special sessions that are always active:


#### Types of sessions

##### According to online documentation

* **Global Logger Session**: Records events of the early booting process of the system. More info: [Global Logger][Global]

* **NT Kernel Logger Session**: Records predefined system events generated by the OS itself. More info: [NT Kernel Logger](NT Kernel)

##### According to SOULAMI's book

The are two types of sessions:

* **Nt Kernel**: Used by all the built-in kernel providers for logging their events.
* **other users**: Must be used by all the ETW providers that can’t log to the NT Kernel Logger session, though the same session can be shared by more than one user provider. User providers include your own custom providers, but also anything in the operating system that’s not considered to be a part of the core kernel. For example, TCP/IP events are considered user events, even though they are logged by the network driver stack in kernel mode.

And there are two sub-types:

* **Autologger**: There can be multiple sessions of it. It cannot be of type **NT Kernel**.
* **Global Logger**: It can only exist one session of this sub-type. Meaninig that if it exists, it's of type **NT Kernel**.

#### Logging of events

Sessions can log events either in a real-time feed or inside files. If the real-time if is chosen, the session can deliver data only to one consumer. If the session delivers data in the form of files, then multiple consumers can consume it. 

<!-- Interal references -->
[Global]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa363690(v=vs.85).aspx
[NT_Kernel]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa363691(v=vs.85).aspx